#162 Updates to melange docs (#173)
chainguard-dev/edu: content/open-source/melange/faq.md

---
title: "melange FAQs"
type: "article"
lead: "Frequently asked questions about melange"
description: "Frequently asked questions about melange"
date: 2022-10-17T11:07:52+02:00
lastmod: 2022-10-17T11:07:52+02:00
draft: false
images: []
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "melange"
weight: 900
toc: true
---

### How are melange packages defined?
melange apks are defined declaratively using a YAML file.

### Are melange apks compatible with Alpine?
Yes, melange apks are built to be compatible with apk-based systems including Alpine.

### Can I mix Alpine and Wolfi package repositories to create my melange build environment?
No, it's not possible to mix Alpine apks with Wolfi apks. If you have unmet dependencies, you'll need to build those first as separate packages.

> ### Is it mandatory to sign packages with a melange key?

Reviewer: There is a weird space on the deploy preview, just fyi. Let's monitor the real deploy

<img width="736" alt="Screen Shot 2022-11-09 at 12 59 02 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5977693/200905334-87b2712d-8d85-4a71-86cd-252844ad8cba.png">

Author: Hm that's strange! I don't see it here. Maybe it's some font-related thing, let's see how it looks like when we merge.

> Signing packages is not mandatory, but it is a recommended practice, because it allows users and automated systems to verify that the package they downloaded was built by the same person who signed it, and that it hasn't been tampered with.

Reviewer: I think it's worthwhile to call out that it can cause problems. I could see this and the next question being combined, alternatively

```suggestion
Signing packages is not mandatory, but it is a recommended practice that is enforced by some systems. Signing packages allows users and automated systems to verify that the package they downloaded was built by the same person who signed it, and that it hasn't been tampered with.
```

Author: I think it makes a lot of sense to combine them!

### What happens if I don't provide a key to sign my package(s)?
Some systems may prevent installation of your apk if they can't attest the package provenance. This is the case with apko, which by default will fail any builds that reference unsigned packages.

### Can I create custom pipelines and embed them into my main pipeline?
Although melange supports inclusion of sub-pipelines, this feature currently only supports the built-in pipelines (such as `make`, `split`, and others) that can be found at the [pkg/build/pipelines](https://github.com/chainguard-dev/melange/tree/main/pkg/build/pipelines) directory on the main project repository.

> The ability to embed custom pipelines is on the roadmap, but it's not a priority at the moment.

Reviewer: Did you want this on a new line or together?

Author: I thought together, but open to change :) I broke the line cause it was annoying in my editor
